CCTV On December , Argentinas new President Javier Milei met with President Xi Jinpings Special Envoy and Vice Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National Peoples Congress Wu Weihua. Could you share more details on that meeting? Mao Ning At the invitation of the government of Argentina, President Xi Jinpings Special Envoy and Vice Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National Peoples Congress Wu Weihua attended the inauguration of President of Argentina Javier Milei in Argentinas capital Buenos Aires. On December , President Javier Milei met with Wu Weihua. Wu Weihua extended President Xi Jinpings warm congratulations and best wishes to President Javier Milei. President Javier Milei thanked President Xi for sending the special envoy to attend his inauguration, and asked Vice Chairman Wu to extend his sincere greetings and best wishes to President Xi. He stressed that the new government of Argentina attaches high importance to its relations with China and will continue to firmly follow the oneChina principle and the Argentine side stands ready to further promote the indepth exchanges and cooperation between the two countries in various fields including economy and trade and cultural and peopletopeople exchanges. Global Times It is reported that IMF First Deputy Managing Director Gita Gopinath said on December  that around , trade restricting measures were imposed last year, nearly three times the number imposed in . If the global economy fragments into two blocs, including predominantly the US and Europe in the Western bloc and China and Russia in the Eastern bloc, the global losses are estimated to be about . to  percent of global GDP. What is your comment? Mao Ning Trade protectionism is not conducive to the free flow of factors including goods, services and capital, distorts resource allocation, and undermines consumers interests. It does no good to the production efficiency and the recovery and development of the world economy. What is concerning is that some countries have been pushing for decoupling and severing of supply chains under the pretext of security, and imposing trade restriction measures in the name of derisking. This will only make the world even less safe and bring more risks. As President Xi Jinping stressed, in an increasingly interdependent and integrated world where countries form a community of shared interests, openness, inclusiveness and winwin cooperation are the only viable option. China is always committed to building an open world economy and steadfastly promoting highlevel openingup. We always believe that absence of cooperation is the biggest risk and failure to develop is the biggest security threat. China stands ready to work with all parties to realize common development and prosperity through equal consultation and mutually beneficial cooperation. Associated Press of Pakistan On December , Indian Supreme Court announced a decision endorsing the Indian governments unilateral step to change the status of Jammu and Kashmir region, which is a clear violation of UNSC Resolution  which decided that the final settlement of the Jammu and Kashmir issue can only take place by UNsupervised plebiscite. What is Chinas response? Mao Ning Chinas position on the Kashmir issue is consistent and clearcut. The Kashmir issue, left from the past, needs to be resolved peacefully and appropriately in accordance with the UN Charter, Security Council resolutions and relevant bilateral agreement. Parties concerned need to settle the dispute through dialogue and consultation so as to maintain regional peace and stability.  Bloomberg Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo said the US will take the strongest possible action to protect national security when asked about how the Commerce Department will respond to Huaweis chipmaking breakthroughs. Do you have any response to her comments? Mao Ning We have made clear our position on US chip export controls targeting China on multiple occasions. Such abuse of export control measures seriously harms Chinese companies legitimate rights and interests, destabilizes global chip industrial and supply chains, violates the principles of market economy and fair competition, and serves no ones interests. We firmly reject this. The US needs to act on its commitments of not seeking a decoupling from China and not seeking to halt Chinas economic development. We will be watching closely relevant developments and resolutely defend our legitimate rights and interests. Bloomberg One more on Raimondo on a separate issue. She said the US is looking into specifics of three new AI accelerators that Nvidia is developing for China. Earlier this month she vowed to restrict any new chips that give the Asian country AI capabilities. Can you give any response to that? Mao Ning We firmly oppose the USs abuse of export controls and malicious attempts to blockade and keep down China. AFP Chinas official media reported today that President Xi is now in Hanoi on a state visit to Viet Nam. Could you update us on this? Mao Ning General Secretary and President Xi Jinping is paying a state visit to Viet Nam starting from today. More information on the visit will be released in a timely manner. Please check back for updates. 