At the invitation of Member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Vice Premier of the State Council Ding Xuexiang, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance of the Republic of Singapore Lawrence Wong will visit China from December  to . Vice Premier Ding Xuexiang and Deputy Prime Minister Lawrence Wong will cochair the th meeting of the ChinaSingapore Joint Council for Bilateral Cooperation, the th meeting of ChinaSingapore Suzhou Industrial Park Joint Steering Council JSC, the th meeting of the ChinaSingapore Tianjin EcoCity JSC and the seventh meeting of the ChinaSingapore Chongqing Demonstration Initiative on Strategic Connectivity JSC in Tianjin on December . At the invitation of Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Foreign Minister Wang Yi, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Angola Tte Antnio and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Mali Abdoulaye Diop will pay official visits to China from December  to  and from December  to  respectively. AFP US Commerce Secretary recently called China the biggest threat weve ever had and stressed China is not our friend. She also urged US business leaders to put national security above short term revenue. What is your comment on this? Wang Wenbin President Biden once noted that the US is not seeking to halt Chinas economic development or scientific and technological progress. However, the remarks of the US official contradict this. It will hardly win the trust from China and the rest of the world, and reveals the deepseated ColdWar mentality and hegemonic mindset of some in the US. China never bets against the US, and has no intention to challenge or unseat it. The US needs to have a right understanding of China, work with China to earnestly deliver on the important common understandings reached between the two Presidents in their meeting in San Francisco, stop viewing China as an enemy, correct the wrong move of carrying out majorcountry confrontation under the pretext of competition, and avoid saying one thing and doing another. I read some comment on Chinese media platforms, which I would like to cite here and hope the US will seriously reflect on it. Going against the rules, principles and laws of free trade market is like building a dam of sievesno matter how hard you try, the water will run through the sieves to where it is heading. Yonhap News Agency Chinas General Administration of Customs has recently halted customs clearance on exports of urea to the Republic of Korea ROK. The ROK government considers the Chinese action as an informal export restriction. Could the foreign ministry share more information with us? Wang Wenbin We noted relevant reports. The relevant departments of China and the ROK maintain communication on this. Id like to refer you to the competent authorities for any specifics.  The Paper The United Arab Emirates UAE, as the host country of the th session of the United Nations Climate Change Conference COP, held the World Climate Action Summit WCAS in Dubai on December  and . President Xi Jinpings Special Representative, Member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Vice Premier of the State Council Ding Xuexiang attended the meeting and delivered an address. Could you share some information with us on that? Wang Wenbin From November  to December , President Xi Jinpings Special Representative, Member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Vice Premier of the State Council Ding Xuexiang attended the World Climate Action Summit WCAS in Dubai and delivered an address. In his address, Vice Premier Ding first conveyed President Xis good wishes for the UAE in hosting the summit. He recalled that eight years ago, President Xi worked with leaders of other countries to reach the Paris Agreement with utmost political determination and wisdom, and embarked on a new journey of global cooperation to address climate change. He said that China has always kept its promise and made important contributions to global climate governance and put forward a threepoint proposal on global climate governance, including practicing multilateralism, accelerating green transformation, and strengthening action implementation. He stressed that we need to adhere to the goals and principles set out in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement actively increase the proportion of renewable energy, promote the clean, lowcarbon and efficient use of traditional energy, and accelerate the formation of green and lowcarbon production methods and lifestyles. He added that countries need to fully honor the existing commitments. In particular, developed countries should effectively increase financial, technological and capacity building support to developing countries. Vice Premier Dings address demonstrates Chinas sense of responsibility as a major country in actively tackling climate change and leading in global climate governance, which will help COP achieve positive outcomes, boost full and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement and build a clean and beautiful world. During the summit, Vice Premier Ding also attended and addressed the Group of  G and China leaders summit on climate change, met respectively with leaders including the UAE President Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Zambian President Hakainde Hichilema, Cuban President Miguel DazCanel, President of the Maldives Mohamed Muizzu and UN SecretaryGeneral Antnio Guterres. He shared with them what China has achieved in enhancing ecological conservation and Chinas propositions on global climate and environmental governance, which has been widely recognized. NHK Hong Kong prodemocracy activist Agnes Chow Ting, who is studying in Canada, said on social media on December  that shes living in exile in Canada and wont return to Hong Kong for the rest of her life. Do you have any comment? Wang Wenbin The Hong Kong police has responded to this and condemned her irresponsible behaviors that blatantly challenge law and order. China is a country with rule of law and Hong Kong is a lawbased society where residents lawful rights and interests are fully protected. That being said, no one is entitled to extrajudicial privileges and all offenders shall be brought to justice.  Xinhua News Agency Can you brief us on this years mechanism meetings between China and Singapore at the vicepremier level? What are the special highlights of this years meetings? Wang Wenbin The bilateral cooperation mechanisms between China and Singapore at the vicepremier level are the two sides institutionalized communication channel at the highest level, playing an important role for years in promoting ChinaSingapore cooperation in various fields in a coordinating way and facilitating socioeconomic development of the two countries. This years meetings to be held in Tianjin coincide with the th anniversary of the ChinaSingapore Tianjin EcoCity project and the two sides will hold commemorating activities. China and Singapore are each others friendly neighbors and important partners, with a sound momentum of growth in bilateral relations. This March, President Xi Jinping and Singapores Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong jointly announced to elevate ChinaSingapore relations to an allround highquality futureoriented partnership, providing strategic guidance for ChinaSingapore cooperation. This years meetings are the first ones since the bilateral relationship was elevated. Thus the meetings have special significance. The two sides will focus on allround, highquality and futureoriented in the characterization, deliver on the important common understandings between leaders of the two countries, further dovetail development strategies, fully advance highquality cooperation and jointly act on the new characterization of ChinaSingapore relationship. Beijing Daily On December , the first China International Supply Chain Expo CISCE was successfully concluded. We noted that many representatives from multinational corporations attending the expo said that holding the first CISCE demonstrates Chinas firm determination in taking concrete actions to deepen international cooperation on industrial and supply chains. What is your comment on this? Wang Wenbin As the worlds first nationallevel expo themed on supply chains, the first CISCE attracted  companies and institutions from both home and abroad. Available data shows that over  cooperation deals and tentative deals worth more than RMB  billion were signed at the expo. The CISCE is a grand event that connects the world for a shared future. It reflects the common aspiration of all parties for building stable and resilient industrial and supply chains, sends out a clear message of Chinas deeper engagement in building global industrial and supply chains, and shows that in global industrial and supply chain cooperation, China is not only a participant and beneficiary, but also a staunch defender and contributor. During the CISCE, the international business community launched the Beijing Initiative for the Connectivity of Industrial and Supply Chains. Companies from home and abroad connected by industrial and supply chains showcased their advancements, deepened cooperation and gained substantively from the CISCE. The supply chains should be chains of winwin cooperation. China stands ready to share opportunities with all sides that stem from its huge market, the most complete industrial sectors, highlevel opening up policy, and innovation factors gathering at a faster pace. China stands ready to work with all sides to build global industrial and supply chains that are secure, stable, smooth, efficient, open, inclusive and mutually beneficial, and provide strong safeguards for boosting global growth and increasing the wellbeing of people around the world.  AFP The Philippine government said recently that it is deeply concerned about the over  Chinese boats around Niue Jiao. French Foreign Minister Catherine Colonna said recently that France is concerned by what the Chinese warship did to the Australian ship. She added that stability must prevail in the Taiwan Strait, and certainly the world doesnt need a new crisis. What is your response to these? Wang Wenbin On your first question, Niue Jiao is part of Chinas Nansha Qundao. Relevant waters of the South China Sea, including Niue Jiao and its adjacent waters, have always been important operating areas and shelters for Chinese fishing boats. It is justified and lawful for Chinese fishing boats to operate or shelter from wind in the area, and the Philippines is in no position to make irresponsible remarks. On your second question, you may refer to Chinas previous response. I would like to stress that the Taiwan question is purely Chinas internal affair, and the solid anchor to crossStrait peace and stability is the oneChina principle. We hope relevant parties will adhere to the oneChina principle, stand firmly with China against Taiwan independence, and safeguard peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait. TASS Yesterday Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko started his visit to China. Does the foreign ministry have any comment? How does the foreign ministry comment on Belarus and Chinas cooperative partnership? Wang Wenbin China and Belarus are allweather comprehensive strategic partners and the two sides maintain close exchanges at all levels. As for the details of President Lukashenkos visit, you may refer to the relevant press release the Chinese side has put out. Bloomberg Finland has said that it will demand that its investigators be allowed on board the NewNew Polar Bear, a Hong Kongflagged vessel whose anchor ripped up a subsea gas pipeline in October. Finlands President said that he requires that investigators from his country will be involved when the captain is questioned when he returns to China. How does the foreign ministry respond to this? Wang Wenbin China always attaches great importance to protecting the safety and security of undersea infrastructure, and strictly fulfills its obligations under international law, including the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and relevant treaties of the International Maritime Organization. Relevant Chinese authorities are conducting technical investigation on the incident and maintaining smooth communication and good cooperation with parties concerned, including Finland, in accordance with international law. China Daily On December , the High Constitutional Court of Madagascar announced the final result of the countrys presidential election. Andry Rajoelina was reelected as President with . percent of the votes. Do you have any comment? Wang Wenbin We noted the announcement of the election result by the High Constitutional Court of Madagascar and express our sincere congratulations to Mr. Rajoelina for his reelection as the President of Madagascar. We believe that under the leadership of President Rajoelina, Madagascar will achieve greater success in national development and economic and social progress. China always values its traditional friendship with Madagascar. We stand ready to work with the new government of Madagascar to deepen and expand exchange and cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative and the Forum on ChinaAfrica Cooperation, and pursue new, greater development of the ChinaMadagascar comprehensive cooperative partnership.  Hubei Media Group December  marks the second anniversary of the ChinaLaos Railway. Data shows the railway has served . million passengers and shipped . million tonnes of goods over the past two years, taking on an increasingly important role as a golden route. Do you have any comment? Wang Wenbin Over the past two years, the ChinaLaos Railway has become an important engine for economic and trade cooperation as well as peopletopeople exchanges between China and Laos, a road of happiness, development and friendship for the benefit of the Chinese and Laotian people, and an artery linking China and countries on the Indochina Peninsula. The ChinaLaos Railway freight service could reach  Belt and Road partner countries, including Laos, Thailand, Viet Nam, and Myanmar. The LancangMekong Express international freight train of the ChinaLaos Railway now runs  trains with fixed point, time, route and train number. The new transport model of ChinaLaos Railway plus ChinaEurope Railway Express has shortened direct rail shipping time from countries like Laos and Thailand to Europe to  days. The railways function as a major international corridor in increasing domestic and international connectivity, benefiting countries along the routes, leveraging complementarity of its destinations, and offering safe and efficient services is becoming more pronounced. We hope that the ChinaLaos Railway, as an engine for China and countries on the Indochina Peninsula to promote highquality Belt and Road cooperation, will continue to run at top speed and drive the development and prosperity of more countries in the region. NHK It is reported that the th ChinaEU Summit will be held in Beijing on December . Can you share more information and Chinas expectation? Wang Wenbin The ChinaEU Summit is an annual meeting between the leaders of the two sides and provides strategic guidance for the development of ChinaEU relations. This years summit coincides with the th anniversary of the ChinaEU comprehensive strategic partnership and the th anniversary of the ChinaEU Summit mechanism. It is followed closely by people from various fields in China and the EU as well as the broader international community. China attaches high importance to the summit. President Xi Jinping will meet with the President of the European Council Charles Michel and the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen. Premier Li Qiang will cohost the summit with the two Presidents of the EU. Leaders from the two sides will have indepth exchange of views on strategic issues critical to the direction of ChinaEU relations and global issues of mutual interest to draw a blueprint for, identity the focus of and inject impetus to ChinaEU relations. At present, the situation unseen in a century is evolving at a faster pace marked by increased volatility in international situation, sluggish world economy and emerging global challenges. The ChinaEU relationship is also facing new opportunities and challenges. China and the EU are partners, not rivals and our common interests far exceed differences. China hopes that the summit will play an important role by building on past achievements, enhance understanding and mutual trust through strategic communication, boost mutually beneficial cooperation through innovation, and discuss solutions through dialogue and consultation. China hopes that the two sides can work together to address global challenges, inject new impetus to the global economy, increase stability in international situation and provide strategic guidance for sustained and sound development of ChinaEU relations. This serves the fundamental and longterm interest of both China and the EU and meets the common aspiration of the international community. Shenzhen TV The Israel Defence Forces issued a statement on December  saying that Hamas violated the temporary ceasefire deal and attacked Israel. Israel resumed combat operations against Hamas. On the same day, Israeli officials said that intelligence department of Israel is making plans to hunt down Hamas leaders living in Lebanon, Trkiye and Qatar. Whats Chinas comment? Wang Wenbin China is deeply concerned over the resumed fighting in Gaza. Under the current situation, the goal of ending the hostilities should not change and the principle of protecting civilians should not be violated. Facts prove once again that the use of force will never bring lasting peace. Heavier civilian casualties will only create more hatred and hasten the next round of escalation. China strongly calls on relevant sides to exercise restraint and the international community, especially countries with influence on the PalestinianIsraeli issue, to earnestly play a responsible role, implement the Security Councils Resolution  and the resolution adopted by the UN General Assembly at its emergency session, promote a comprehensive and lasting ceasefire, protect civilians, ease the humanitarian crisis in Gaza, resume talks for peace as soon as possible and work relentlessly for the peaceful coexistence between Palestine and Israel and lasting peace in the Middle East. 