After China started managing COVID with measures against ClassB infectious diseases from January , , the Chinese government has improved visa and entry policies for foreign nationals to facilitate crossborder travel. As a provisional measure, Chinese embassies and consulates will charge  percent of the previous visa fees from December ,  to December , . For more details, please consult Chinese embassies and consulates in relevant countries. China Review News According to reports, Sandiaga Uno, Minister of Tourism and Creative Economy of Indonesia, said on December  that Indonesia is considering adopting a visafree policy for tourists from  countries including China, the US and Australia to boost tourism and the economy. Malaysia earlier announced a day visafree policy for Chinese citizens. Thailand has decided to temporarily waive tourist visa requirements for visitors from China. Yesterday China and Singapore announced a day mutual visa exemption arrangement. China is reaching mutual visa exemption arrangements with more neighboring countries. Do you have any comment? Wang Wenbin China welcomes measures aimed at facilitating crossborder travel. We stand ready to work with relevant countries to create favorable conditions and provide greater convenience for easy crossborder travel. Reuters Taiwans defense ministry said today that a Chinese weather balloon had crossed the Taiwan Strait median line on Thursday. Does the foreign ministry have anything to offer regarding the balloons location or purpose? And Taiwans foreign ministry today also said that China has failed to live up to the promises it made Latin American countries that ended ties with Taiwan in favor of China. Does the foreign ministry have any comment on that as well? Wang Wenbin First of all, I would like to correct you that Taiwan is part of China. There is no socalled defense ministry or foreign ministry of Taiwan. On your first question, I am not aware of the situation and this is not a question on foreign affairs. On your second question, let me say that the normal, friendly relations between China and Latin American countries are deepening and our mutually beneficial cooperation is making positive progress. No matter what the DPP authorities say or do, they cannot change such a sound momentum of growth.  China Daily The eighth LancangMekong Cooperation Foreign Ministers Meeting was held in Beijing yesterday. Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Myanmars Deputy Prime Minister and Union Minister for Foreign Affairs U Than Swe cochaired the meeting. Can you brief us on the outcomes of the meeting? Wang Wenbin The eighth LancangMekong Cooperation LMC Foreign Ministers Meeting was successfully held in Beijing yesterday. Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Myanmars Deputy Prime Minister and Union Minister for Foreign Affairs U Than Swe cochaired the meeting. Cambodian Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Sok Chenda Sophea, Thailands Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Parnpree BahiddhaNukara, Vietnamese Minister of Foreign Affairs Bui Thanh Son and Laos Chairman of the Committee for External Relations of the Party Central Committee Thongsavanh Phomvihane attended the meeting. Under the theme of Jointly Strive for Modernization and Cultivate New Strength in Subregional Development, the meeting took stock of the progress of LMC, planned for the priority work in the next stage, and made preparation and built up consensus for the fourth LancangMekong Cooperation Leaders Meeting. Foreign Minister Wang Yi noted, since the seventh LMC Foreign Ministers Meeting, relevant parties have acted in the LancangMekong spirit of development first, equal consultation, practicality and high efficiency, and openness and inclusiveness, taken steady steps to advance cooperation in various areas, achieved a number of new outcomes and created multiple new highlights. First, cooperation has been upgraded under highlevel guidance. Second, economic and trade exchanges have been fully accelerated. Third, peoples wellbeing has continued to improve. Fourth, the bond of the people in LancangMekong countries has been closer. As the first new subregional cooperation mechanism jointly initiated and launched by the six LancangMekong countries, LMC has become a new, important platform for advancing mutually beneficial cooperation in the region. China suggested six priority areas for advancing LMC. First, build a closer community with a shared future. LancangMekong countries need to enhance highlevel exchanges to provide strategic guidance for LMC we need to synergize development strategies to develop the big LancangMekong market and we need to put the people at the center of our work and bring the benefit of cooperation to our people. Second, build a more interconnected economic development belt. The six countries need to fully improve infrastructure connectivity, expand trade and investment and improve the network of industrial and supply chains and we also need to carry out closer cooperation on crossborder special economic zones to boost common development. Third, foster a more secure development environment. The six countries need to take security cooperation as a key cooperation area for the next stage, adopt the Operation of The Safety of the LancangMekong Region at an early date, combat subregional crossborder crimes, especially telecom fraud and online gambling, and eradicate the security problems jeopardizing peoples security and disrupting development. Fourth, move towards a more digital development prospect. Scitech authorities of the six countries are discussing the establishment of a subregional innovation corridor, and China is ready to carry out more cooperation on digital economy and innovation under the framework of such corridor. In accordance with the spirit of the Global AI Governance Initiative, China and the five Mekong countries will actively explore cooperation in the field of artificial intelligence. Fifth, deepen peopletopeople and cultural cooperation with more distinctive features. The six countries will carry out diverse forms of peopletopeople and cultural exchanges in tourism, sports, media, subnational cooperation, universities, youth and other fields, so as to enhance the friendship and affinity of the six peoples. Sixth, champion more inclusive cooperation. We will not engage in exclusive cliques and are committed to the right direction of regional economic integration. We will vigorously promote the coordinated development of the LMC with the Greater Mekong SubRegion economic cooperation, the Three River Basin Mechanism and the Mekong River Commission, and make the subregion a harmonious home of openness, inclusiveness, exchanges and mutual learning. The foreign ministers of the Mekong countries spoke highly of the positive progress made in LMC and appreciated Chinas positive contribution to promoting LMC. They agreed that LMC has become an important platform for maintaining regional peace and stability, promoting regional development and prosperity, and boosting industrialization and modernization of various countries. In the current complex and challenging international security and economic situation, LancangMekong countries should jointly advance subregional cooperation, deepen interdependence, make good use of institutional platforms and relevant funds, coordinate efforts for development and security, and respond to traditional and nontraditional security challenges in a coordinated manner. Some countries have also identified specific areas for strengthening industrialization cooperation, which is constructive and forwardlooking. All parties agreed to build a stronger LancangMekong Cooperation Economic Development Belt, deepen cooperation in priority areas such as connectivity, further unleash development potential, jointly address global challenges, and build an even closer LancangMekong community with a shared future. This foreign ministers meeting is efficient, pragmatic and productive, which has further strengthened the determination and confidence of the six countries to jointly build a community of shared future of peace and prosperity among MekongLancang countries. China will work with Mekong countries to jointly build an exemplar for Belt and Road cooperation, a pacesetter for implementing the Global Development Initiative, a pioneer for implementing the Global Security Initiative and a front runner for implementing the Global Civilization Initiative. We will build a more solid foundation for the LMC, enable it to move forward more steadily and make the pace more steady with broader prospect and bring more benefits to the people of countries in the region. Bloomberg Bloomberg today published a story with reporting that suggests that Chinese authorities in recent years have placed curbs on the ability of ethnic Mongolians in Inner Mongolia to express their ethnic identity such as the ability to study in schools using the Mongolian language. Given that Chinas policies pertaining to ethnic minorities have been a point of contention in the past between it and the US, the EU and others, does the foreign ministry expect such findings to have an impact on future diplomatic relations? Wang Wenbin Im not aware of the report. Can you explain the main opinions of it? Bloomberg The main opinions are that in a recent reporting trip to Inner Mongolia they found that in schools there students are no longer allowed to learn using ethnic Mongolian language and must learn using Chinese language. Wang Wenbin The relevant reporting team you mentioned once went to Inner Mongolia for interviews. If they were really objective, serious and careful enough to walk around the streets in Inner Mongolia, they would find that the socalled restrictions on the local language environment and the teaching of Mongolian are completely unfounded. The Chinese government upholds equality among all ethnic groups, and protects the freedom of all ethnic groups, including the Mongolians, to learn, use and develop their own spoken and written languages in accordance with the law. You asked whether Chinas relevant regulations will affect its relations with other countries. As long as other countries continue to develop relations with China in accordance with the principle of mutual respect and noninterference in other countries internal affairs, their relations with China will not be affected.  CCTV According to reports, the House of Representatives of the Philippines adopted a resolution on December  condemning Chinas illegal actions in the South China Sea. Do you have any comment? Wang Wenbin The resolution adopted by the House of Representatives of the Philippines groundlessly criticized, misrepresented and smeared China. We firmly reject it. I would like to reiterate Chinas solemn position as follows First, China has indisputable sovereignty over Nanhai Zhudao, consisting of Dongsha Qundao, Xisha Qundao, Zhongsha Qundao and Nansha Qundao, and their adjacent waters, and has sovereign rights and jurisdiction over relevant waters. Chinas sovereignty, rights and interests in the South China Sea were established in the long course of history, and are solidly grounded in history and the law. Second, the Arbitral Tribunal in the South China Sea Arbitration violated the principle of state consent, exercised its jurisdiction ultra vires and rendered an award in disregard of the law. This is a grave violation of UNCLOS and general international law. The award is illegal, null and void. China does not accept or recognize it, and will never accept any claim or action based on the award. This is firmly grounded in international law. Chinas sovereignty and rights and interests in the South China Sea shall under no circumstances be affected by the illegal award. Any attempt to impose the illegal award on China is in violation of international law. Third, Chinas construction and deployment of necessary defense facilities on its own territory in Nansha Qundao, and the patrols by Chinese military and Coast Guard ships, the scientific research activities by relevant Chinese departments, and the fishing activities by Chinese fishing boats in waters under Chinas jurisdiction are all legitimate, lawful and beyond reproach. Fourth, Renai Jiao is part of Chinas Nansha Qundao. The Philippines illegally grounded a warship there and frequently sent vessels to illegally intrude into the reefs adjacent waters to deliver construction materials in an attempt to reinforce the grounded warship. This amounts to grave infringement on Chinas sovereignty. China will continue to do what is necessary to firmly safeguard its sovereignty in accordance with domestic and international law. Fifth, Chinas summer fishing moratorium in the South China Sea is a normal measure aimed at protecting marine biological resources in waters under its jurisdiction and a concrete step in fulfilling its obligations under international law including UNCLOS. The Philippine side should not make wanton remarks about this. Sixth, for some time, the Philippines has been sending people to Tiexian Jiao and other uninhabited islands and reefs of Chinas Nansha Islands and sending aircraft and vessels to intrude into adjacent waters and airspace of Chinas Nansha Islands and Huangyan Dao. These moves severely violate Chinas sovereignty, endanger Chinas security, go against the spirit of the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea DOC and undermine peace and stability in the South China Sea. China has made serious dmarches for nearly  times and officially expressed our protest to the Philippines. We once again urge the Philippines to stop hyping up maritime disputes between China and the Philippines, stop its infringement of Chinas sovereignty and provocation at sea, return to the right track of resolving maritime disputes through negotiation and consultation as soon as possible and work with China to safeguard peace and stability in the South China Sea. Kyodo News During a meeting with Chief Representative Yamaguchi Natsuo of Japans Komeito party on December , Chinese Ambassador to Japan Wu Jianghao said that efforts will be made to promote exchanges and communication between parties and political figures and other areas. The communication between the ruling parties in China and Japan, however, has not been officially resumed. Whats Chinas attitude towards this? Wang Wenbin China is open to exchanges and cooperation with Japan, including interparty exchanges. We hope that Japan will work with China to follow the important mutual understandings reached by the leaders of the two countries, act on the principles and consensus in the four political documents between China and Japan, and align efforts to improve bilateral ties with the commitment to promoting a strategic relationship of mutual benefit, and work hard towards the goal of building a constructive and stable ChinaJapan relationship fit for the new era. Beijing Daily According to reports, UN SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres, based on Article  of the UN Charter, wrote to the rotating president of the Security Council saying that the situation in Gaza may threaten world peace and security and calling on the Security Council to take steps to realize humanitarian ceasefire and averting an even worse humanitarian disaster. Its the first time in over five decades for the UN SecretaryGeneral to invoke Article . Whats Chinas comment? Wang Wenbin As this round of PalestinianIsraeli conflict drags on and causes severe humanitarian disaster, the call of the UN SecretaryGeneral Antonio Guterres reflects the strong concern of the international community on the serious situation in Gaza. The world must take more active steps to save lives and restore peace. The Security Council should listen to the call of the vast Arab and Islamic countries and the international community, take further and timely actions, realize a comprehensive ceasefire, protect civilians and ease the humanitarian situation. The recently released Position Paper of the Peoples Republic of China on Resolving the PalestinianIsraeli Conflict fully reflects the abovementioned position. China supports the mediation work of the UN SecretaryGeneral and the UN Secretariat, we will continue to enhance coordination with relevant sides and play a constructive role in deescalating the situation.  Reuters Could you tell us has Zambias official creditor committee cochaired by China reached an agreement on how they define comparability of treatment and what they want from Zambias bondholders to achieve that? And have any further meetings been held on Zambias debt, either just the official creditor committee or the committee with Zambia and all the bondholders? Wang Wenbin China takes Zambias debt issue seriously and has always been actively advancing the settlement of debts by the Creditor Committee for Zambia. China always calls on parties to participate in Zambias debt treatment in accordance with the principle of joint actions and fair burdensharing, and the aim is to comprehensively, systematically and effectively help Zambia emerge from the debt crisis. The Creditor Committee for Zambia is in consultations on this and relevant Chinese authorities will continue to participate in relevant process with a professional and responsible attitude. Bloomberg The US and Mexico signed an agreement on screening foreign investments specifically in relation to Chinese companies. Does the foreign ministry have any comment on the development? Wang Wenbin China believes that restricting normal trade and investment activities and disrupting relevant cooperation for political purposes does not serve the interests of any party. We hope the US will not overstretch the concept of national security, respect market rules and the principle of fair competition, and provide an open, fair, just and nondiscriminatory environment for the investment and operation of companies from all countries in the US. China News Service The th ChinaEU Summit was held in Beijing yesterday. Can you share the major agendas as well as the outcomes and common understandings reached at the summit? EU leaders have spoken positively of the summit, but at the same time expressed their high concern over trade imbalance and excess production capacity. What is Chinas response? Wang Wenbin This years ChinaEU Summit coincides with the th anniversary of the ChinaEU comprehensive strategic partnership and the th anniversary of the ChinaEU Summit mechanism. President Xi Jinping met with the two EU Presidents and Premier Li Qiang held the summit with them. The two sides exchanged views on strategic issues bearing on the ChinaEU relations, dialogue and cooperation in various fields, major concerns of the two sides, global governance and major international and regional issues. Both sides believe that the talks are candid, deepgoing and productive, and that the two sides have enhanced mutual understanding, deepened strategic communication, and built up consensus for cooperation. First, the summit charted the course for the growth of ChinaEU relations. The two sides agreed to fully leverage the guiding role of the ChinaEU Summit and the five highlevel dialogues, step up dialogue and cooperation, properly manage differences, and make ChinaEU relations more stable and mutually beneficial. Second, the summit identified key areas for closer mutually beneficial cooperation. Dialogue and cooperation will be stepped up in such areas as trade and investment, green development, digital economy, artificial intelligence, geographical indication, intellectual property rights and export control. Third, the summit demonstrated the two sides willingness to resume crossborder travel and enhance peopletopeople exchange. The two sides agreed to hold another meeting of the ChinaEU highlevel peopletopeople dialogue. Fourth, the summit sent out a strong message of ChinaEU joint response to global challenges. The two sides agreed to support and practice multilateralism, step up international coordination, advance reforms of the WTO and the international financial system, and jointly respond to global challenges such as climate change, bio diversity, food security and public health. On the issue of trade imbalance, we must see that the current situation in ChinaEU trade is the result from the combined influence of macroeconomic environment, international trade conditions and the two sides industrial structures. One should not simply put the responsibility on one side only, or blame market access. As for the EUs repeated claim that its trade deficit against China surged last year, it was largely affected by energy price and geopolitical factors and was quite a special phenomenon. This year, the trade deficit has greatly decreased. China has never deliberately pursued trade surplus. Chinas mega market will remain open to the EU and we welcome EU companies to share in the opportunities arising from Chinas highquality development and highlevel opening up. At the same time, we hope that the EU will ease the export restrictions on hightech products. This will effectively improve trade balance. Excess production capacity is a relative term. One cannot just see the demand of a specific country or region, but needs to view it from the perspective of economic globalization. Chinas new energy industry enjoys international competitiveness and can play an important role in the EUs green transition and the global response to climate change. We hope the EU will see this issue from an objective and just manner. China is not to blame for the inadequate impetus for the EUs industrial growth, and the EU should not take this as a pretext to adopt trade protectionist measures. China stands ready to work with the EU to deliver on the important common understandings reached at the summit, remain committed to our partnership, to mutuallybeneficial cooperation and to dialogue and consultation, properly manage differences and promote the sound, steady and sustained growth of ChinaEU relations. Bloomberg I just had a clarification question from your earlier announcement on the visa fees. Is that for all countries or only specific countries? Wang Wenbin It applies to all Chinese embassies and consulates overseas. 