CCTV Egypts National Elections Authority announced the result of the presidential election on the night of December , Beijing time. Incumbent Egyptian President Abdel Fattah ElSisi was reelected. What is Chinas comment? Wang Wenbin We would like to extend our heartfelt congratulations on the smooth presidential election in Egypt and on the reelection of President ElSisi. We believe that under the leadership of President ElSisi, Egypt will achieve greater success in its national development. China and Egypt enjoy a traditional friendship. In recent years, under the strategic guidance of President Xi Jinping and President ElSisi, bilateral relations have entered the fast lane, with fruitful practical cooperation in various areas and everdeeper friendship between the two peoples. China views its relations with Egypt from a strategic height and longterm perspective. We would like to continue working with Egypt to firmly support each other, deepen and expand Belt and Road cooperation, and take the ChinaEgypt comprehensive strategic partnership to a new height. Bloomberg Can you comment on the UK government demanding consular access to Jimmy Lai, who is also a UK citizen? Wang Wenbin We have stated our position yesterday, and I would like to reiterate that Hong Kong follows the rule of law, any law in Hong Kong must be observed and those who break the law must be held accountable. Jimmy Lai is a major mastermind and participant of the antiChina riots in Hong Kong. He is an agent and pawn of the antiChina forces, and the person behind the previous instability in Hong Kong. The Hong Kong law enforcement and judicial authorities have handled and tried the case in accordance with the law. This is fully justified, legitimate and lawful. Attempts to smear, disturb and sabotage Hong Kongs national security law will not succeed. NHK The Foreign Ministry Spokesperson said on December  that with Chinas facilitation, Myanmars military and relevant parties reached agreement on a temporary ceasefire, but relevant UN agencies reported that the fighting still continues. How do you respond to this? Wang Wenbin China supports the peace process of northern Myanmar and has provided support and facilitation for dialogue and contact between relevant parties in Myanmar. Our position is consistent. China hopes that relevant parties in Myanmar can speed up efforts to implement what has been agreed, exercise maximum restraint, actively ease the situation on the ground, promptly manage sporadic confrontation events and together realize the soft landing of the situation in northern Myanmar.  Reuters According to Philippine media, Philippine President Marcos said that Philippine diplomatic efforts with China is heading in poor direction. Has the Philippines invited China for a new round of talks? Will China invite the Philippines for talks? What does Marcos mean by saying in poor direction? Wang Wenbin The recent events between China and the Philippines in the South China Sea are caused by deliberate infringement of Chinas sovereignty and the provocations of the Philippines. The responsibility lies with the Philippines. We will resolutely protect our territorial sovereignty and maritime rights and interests. At the same time, maritime disputes do not represent the entirety of ChinaPhilippines relations. We stand ready to properly handle disputes through dialogue and consultation with the Philippines and will not close our door of dialogue and contact with the Philippines. We hope that the Philippines will make the right choice, seriously honor its commitment of properly handling disputes through dialogue and consultation and work with China to pursue the healthy and steady growth of bilateral ties and jointly safeguard peace and stability in the region. Beijing Daily Its reported that on December  local time, Serbian President Vucic declared the victory of the coalition around the ruling Serbian Progressive Party in parliamentary elections, which won more than half of the seats in the National Assembly, the number needed to form a government. Whats Chinas comment? Wang Wenbin We congratulate Serbia on its smooth parliamentary and local elections. We believe that under the leadership of President Vucic and the new government of Serbia, Serbia will continue to make new progress in national development. China attaches great importance to the growth of ChinaSerbia relations. We look forward to working with Serbia to consolidate our political mutual trust, deepen practical cooperation in various areas and bring ChinaSerbia comprehensive strategic partnership to a higher level. Hubei Media Group Its reported that US Ambassador to China Nicholas Burns said at the Brookings Institution on December  that China has a wish to become more influential in the Middle East, but the work to end the conflict is really on US shoulders. Whats your comment? Wang Wenbin Since the PalestinianIsraeli conflict broke out, China has been committed to promoting a ceasefire, protecting the civilians and easing the humanitarian crisis. President Xi Jinping attended the BRICS extraordinary virtual summit on the PalestinianIsraeli issue, sent congratulatory messages to the UN special commemorative meeting in observance of the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People for  consecutive years, and stated Chinas position on the PalestinianIsraeli conflict on multiple occasions. Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Foreign Minister Wang Yi has had indepth exchange of views with leaders and senior officials of more than  countries and international organizations and traveled to New York to chair the UN Security Council highlevel meeting on the PalestinianIsraeli question. Chinas Special Envoy for the Middle East issue visited countries across the region, attended international conferences and widely engaged relevant countries. As the president of the Security Council in November, China enabled the adoption of the first Security Council resolution since the current PalestinianIsraeli conflict broke out, submitted the Position Paper of the Peoples Republic of China on Resolving the PalestinianIsraeli Conflict and worked to galvanize more support and action from the Security Council. China has provided multiple batches of aid, including humanitarian cash assistance, food and medicine, to the people in Gaza. I want to stress that China does not have selfish interests in the Middle East and does not seek to form exclusive blocs in the region. China always supports the people in Middle East countries in keeping the regions future in their own hands. China stands ready to work with ArabIslamic countries to firmly support the Palestinian peoples just cause of restoring their lawful national rights. In recent years, China has proposed a fivepoint initiative on achieving security and stability in the Middle East, a fourpoint proposal for the political settlement of the Syrian issue, and a threepoint vision for the implementation of the twostate solution to the Palestinian question. China successfully hosted the Saudi ArabiaIran talks in Beijing which produced major outcomes. All the efforts are aimed to encourage regional countries to seek strength through solidarity and resolve disputes and differences through dialogue and consultation. China will continue to work relentlessly to that end with the international community. The international community has been calling more strongly for a ceasefire. The UN General Assembly has adopted two resolutions with an overwhelming majority. We hope the US will listen to the voice of the international community, stop singlehandedly blocking Security Council resolutions, and play its due role to promote an immediate ceasefire and prevent an even larger humanitarian catastrophe.  Bloomberg The US military commander in the IndoPacific has said that China has reduced the number of the socalled dangerous fighter jet intercepts against US aircraft since the summit meeting between President Biden and President Xi Jinping last month. Can you respond to that Wang Wenbin I refer you to competent Chinese authorities for the specifics. Let me say more broadly that China is firmly opposed to the frequent closein reconnaissance conducted by US warships and aircraft around Chinas airspace and waters. We urge the US to stop those dangerous activities which threaten and undermine Chinas security and heighten the risk of regional conflict. CCTV Its reported that on December , the European Parliament adopted a resolution criticizing the Chinese governments forced assimilation of Tibetan children through boarding schools in Xizang, and called on the European Union and its member states to take actions. Whats Chinas comment? Wang Wenbin We have noted relevant reports. Whats said in the relevant resolution of the European Parliament is disinformation. It smears Chinas image and interferes in Chinas internal affairs. We deplore and strongly oppose this. We urge the European Parliament to stop spreading disinformation, stop using Xizangrelated issues to interfere in Chinas internal affairs and stop all words and deeds that might undermine the mutual trust and cooperation between China and Europe. Xizang now enjoys a booming economy, harmonious and stable society, and effective protection and promotion of cultural heritage. The rights and freedoms of all ethnic groups, including the freedom of religious belief and the freedom to use and develop their own spoken and written languages, are fully protected. The human rights conditions in Xizang are better than ever, as witnessed by the international community. In the case of Xizang, due to highly scattered population, children have to travel long distances to get to school, which is very inconvenient. If schools were to be built in every place the students live, it would be very difficult to ensure adequate teachers and quality of teaching in each school. That is why local governments set up boarding schools according to actual needs to ensure all childrens equal right to education. It is entirely up to the students and their parents whether to go to boarding schools or not. Students can choose to go home on every weekend, holiday and festival, as well as during the winter and summer breaks. Parents can visit their children at school any time and take their children home whenever needed. Besides, relevant schools open courses of traditional culture, such as Tibetan language and literature and folk dance, provided traditional food unique to the Xizang Plateau, and students are allowed to wear traditional dresses at school. The European Parliaments attacks and smears against these boarding schools in Xizang are actually a kind of violation of the childrens right to education, which is damaging to the human rights conditions in Xizang. In recent years, in European countries, we have seen growing violation of the rights of refugees and migrants, growing xenophobia and racism, inadequate attention to economic, social and cultural rights as well as the right to development, and selective application and double standards when it comes to freedom of the press and forced labor. If the European Parliament truly cares about human rights, it should address Europes own issues first and pay attention to human rights violations in places like Gaza, rather than apply double standard and selective negligence, and instrumentalize and weaponize the human rights issue. 